China has a massive generational hurdle
to overcome and today we're going to
talk about just that I'm going to show
you the actual data I'm going to show
you the statistics to explain exactly
what I'm talking about you've heard
about the ghost cities in China you've
seen empty houses you've looked at
what's going on with evergrand and
Country Garden and I'm going to show you
that that today but I'll connect that in
with the debt circumstance because I
think that is really missed in the grand
scheme of things it's not just about
having empty homes it's about the debt
so let's look at that here today
typically
an expansion of debts would be used to
pull the future to the present that's
what that is for that is kind of like
okay we got a problem let's spend a
bunch of money let's bring it in okay
let's fix everything let's pay that off
let's get that done okay it's behind us
now but now the way that it works is
okay let's stimulate oh the stimulus is
running out okay more stimulus okay the
stimulus is running out okay more
stimulus China's doing it the US Europe
everybody they're all doing this China's
debt is quite frankly insanely High it's
much worse than what you've been told it
depends on what you look at the shadow
banking system tens of trillions worth
you can look at the local government
financing Vehicles we'll talk about that
in a sec
I mean there's trillions here trillions
there I can't even keep track of it and
I know that it isn't being kept track of
for obvious reasons why don't we look
into it why don't we just talk about the
fact that even 1.4 billion people can't
fill all of China's vacant homes
ex-official admits now I'm not so sure
about this okay I know the situation is
quite bad but here we go
even China's population of 1.4 billion
would not be enough to fill all of the
empty Apartments littered across the
country a former official said in a rare
public critique of the country's crisis
at property Market China's property
sector wants the pillar of the economy
has slumped since 2021 when evergrant
defaulted on its debt obligations
following a clampdown on new borrowing
you've seen that okay cut other
countries on the other hand learn from
their mistakes so you look at United
Arab Emirates specifically Dubai that
they had a massive they were doing the
most silliest things leading up into
2008 and when Real Estate came
collapsing down they really suffered
okay so anybody who went in and scooped
up real estate kind of for pennies on
the dollar and so what happens now is
essentially before they even dig into
that ground they've already got all the
money the construction
needs to have that in order to get the
permits and then the individuals they're
paying in they don't have to worry about
losses from any of the others they don't
have to worry about the company taking a
loss because it's all understood that
this is already paid for
pretty interesting now it's a different
world different environment and of
course China is not Dubai but I think
it's interesting to see that we can
learn from our mistakes and adapt
and so that's why you see so much growth
I mean you see money coming in and you
don't see it going out
I mean the different reasons for that
obviously but look at China okay total
debt is well over 300 percent of the GDP
the GDP is the economy okay and so when
you're growing at that level you you
simply
you can't manage that it is not
manageable
wary foreign investors are selling
domestic Chinese bonds and we've also
seen the equities too
very important okay they are selling off
of equities
this is really something that needs to
be understood
the outstanding amount of China's
augmented government debt reached
equivalent of 126 percent of GDP so when
you break that down there's a lot here I
know
um but just a few things and you'll see
that local government financing Vehicles
onshore most of it that's 60 trillion
dollars I feel like a lot of this debt
has been packaged up that this debt has
been moved from one place to another and
it is being covered up but ultimately
you cannot fix a problem like this and
so it rears its ugly head in the worst
time the worst place and the worst
scenario possible and so when you have
this real estate crisis going on it
could simply just continue to create
damage there it could put a problem in
there for China and their Finance as a
country and it could make foreign
investors say no thank you I'm not going
to put my money in China I don't trust
China
and that's what a lot of them have done
recently but they see the growth
potential they see what they're doing
with the bricks and so there's you know
obviously this toss-up based on Broad
financial sector claims to governments
we estimate the amount of hidden debt to
be about 55 trillion okay so we know
that there are trillions of dollars
worth of that that's being hidden out
there that's put in some sort of Shadow
banking that's
unknown to the public of China but of
course the rest of the world and so that
makes it very difficult to assess how
bad things really are and they're doing
this on purpose they want to be a little
bit secret about the what they let
everyone know so they can have more
control so they can have more uh
oversight and less transparency
an even bigger housing crisis threatens
China's economy two years after
evergrant's fall distressed property
giant Country Garden could create worse
problems
and this is new information everybody
okay this is not you know what we're
talking about many months ago we are
still hearing about this and it is still
unfolding
so we see that evergreen's got a problem
country Garden's got a problem and it's
for one reason or another in the case of
evergrand it's the most indebted
but in the case of Country Garden they
have more properties
all right so there's more people
affected by this and so it's really an
unfortunate circumstance when you see
these
stocks bottoming out like this the bonds
are bottoming out you know that
investors are fleeing and that makes it
harder for these companies to Simply
make ends meet and so the government is
trying to come in and do their thing how
much stimulus are they going to provide
well so far it hasn't been enough to
make the markets satisfied they've done
a few things here and there they've
definitely done some stimulus it's like
a little bit here and there a little bit
here and there but we need a big bazooka
for you know the markets to Simply turn
around and say okay that was it that was
the bond like they don't have a qe1 as
soon as the FED introduced qe1 and all
the tarp bailouts like all that stuff
once those two things were happening
it was game on okay China's not doing
that right now two have China's
strongest developers face ratings cut by
Moody's okay
um this is just one after the other
doesn't matter it doesn't matter who
we're seeing this all over the
developers are all getting hit and if
they are coming down in in raiding you
might say ah who cares but these funds
that are investing in them
the big funds billion dollars here
billion dollars there we're talking
about companies that will say okay we
only will invest in this rated Bond and
so if it's lower than that they gotta
sell it and so that's why that is an
issue what are some other things going
on in China it's not all just bad stuff
it's not all just about the problems
they were having look I wanted to tell
you this I think this is one of the most
underrated things about China
that's going on right now and it could
be a concern for some look at this
China currently holds an estimated 96 of
global copper inventories 75 of global
aluminum
70 percent of corn 54 of wheat thirty
percent of soybeans 22 percent of crude
oil
can you believe that I had this look at
it I mean it seems impossible to me
but that's what this says
so
they are holding on to massive
stockpiles of all these different
commodities
now do they think that maybe they're
going to have some issues well they ran
into some issues before maybe they don't
want to get burned again
but they're holding on to all these
Commodities and generally you would hold
on to a lot of Commodities because you
know you're going to use them all right
and so with it's copper you're going to
do that because you know you're going to
you know build more houses you're going
to do more things it's going to be used
in electric vehicles so hey let's buy it
all at the same time you would think
that
um you would buy it today if the price
is going to go up much higher right
maybe they believe that Chinese gold
buying is driving a paradigm shift in
Boolean this is just one country a lot
of Emerging Markets are still buying
gold today they don't want to invest as
much into the US dollar and so we are
seeing that across the board Poland's
doing it other countries have been doing
this
and of course India as well very common
but we see that for a lot of the cases
and now what's happening is for I
believe this is the first time ever
this is the decline in the usage of the
dollar and an increasing usage of yuan
in cross-border transactions and there's
different reasons for this I'm sure
because of the sanctions because of
everything else
um but that's been the way that they've
wanted it they want to use Chinese
currency when they're dealing with China
and that's a matter of fact it's been a
while coming but it has accelerated in
the last little while okay and so we see
these big broad changes you got the
bricks you've got the US dollar hanging
in the balance as a result of all this
but China has their own problems and I'm
trying to bring you a balanced view of
what's going on okay a few things what
can you do about it right
if China goes into deep recession
Commodities could fall so you got to be
aware of this if you are invested in
Commodities where the companies that are
exposed to Commodities in some way
then watch out because those prices
could fall
and um I would be you know if it's like
for instance an EV company and copper is
suddenly 50 cheaper they may buy buy a
pile of copper at that cheaper price
that's good for them
okay
um so keep that in mind okay it's not
all like that but if you're gonna invest
in Commodities just be aware of that
watch what China does
U.S Farmers could feel this also so if
China is buying a lot of soybeans from
the U.S and they say no we don't need as
many soybeans as we did before that's
going to hit the farmers in the U.S
Transportation as well
billions annually go from the US to
China
and this has been going on and basically
every industry so know your exposure I
know we always talk about the exports
from China to the US but actually it
like you could see these charts and you
can do so
um you know anywhere really I mean
there's so many different websites but
in my searches to try to find the most
recent data I I found you know anything
that you could imagine goes the other
way from the US to China it's not always
the other way around so understand the
dependency here but also when you're an
investor watch your exposure there know
what's going on being a little bit more
intelligent of all this and taking the
time
um
to to look into this trading economics
you can go to search engine trading
economics will tell you A lot of that
you'll get that data for basically about
anything so
you could see it for yourself all right
um if you want
what I call Compass your financial
Journey starts here that is you know
something that I think is so important
and I made it free for everybody I made
it free and about 400 and you know
something people have been through
Compass this is an incredible asset to
you
there's no paywall there's no email
there's no advertisements I made it 100
completely free in hopes I'd provide
more value for you so that you'll come
back day after day you'll invite your
friends and family to this page okay and
then maybe they'll ask more questions
after but this is like totally Financial
education I call it your financial
Journey Starts Here the money
gps.com okay the moneygps.com
comment of the day thank you very much
Sparky for your comment
my grandmother lived through the
depression I wished I asked her more
about it and would have thought that
these things who would have thought that
these things repeat thanks for all you
do yes it's true
we have these repeated patterns and we
could learn from people too I I love to
ask people questions all the time
no matter who they are no matter what
they do for a living because I'm just
trying to add to my database in hopes
that at some point down the road that's
going to be important information and we
should be sharing the information that
we have
what's very important stuff so I hope
you appreciate this video here and I'll
see you on the next one take care